DOCS-132 Introduce Quickstart Tutorial for Enterprise Features (#291)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/getting-started/pages/security.adoc

        this.endpoint = reader.readString('password');
        this.password = reader.readString('endpoint');
    }
    writePortable(writer) {
        writer.writeString('username', this.username);
        writer.writeString('password', this.password);
        writer.writeString('endpoint', this.endpoint);
    }
}
function usernamePasswordCredentialsFactory(classId) {
    if (classId === 1) {
        return new UsernamePasswordCredentials();
    }
    return null;
}
(async () => {
    try {
        const client = await Client.newHazelcastClient({
            clusterName: 'hello-world',
            serialization: {
                portableFactories: {
                    1: usernamePasswordCredentialsFactory
                }
            },
            customCredentials: new UsernamePasswordCredentials('member1', 's3crEt', '192.168.1.101:5701')
        });
        console.log(await client.getDistributedObjects());
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error occurred:', error);
    }
})();
----
. Run this script in the IDE.

====

When looking at the client terminal, you can see that the member side has authenticated and accepted the client connection.

> Here is an example terminal log for the Python client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,shell]
----
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTING
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTED
INFO:hazelcast.connection:Trying to connect to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is CONNECTED
INFO:hazelcast.connection:Authenticated with server Address(host=192.168.1.9, port=5701):63b2a2ce-85f6-413f-8ce9-6058a748e4b9, server version: 5.0, local address: Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=36006)
INFO:hazelcast.cluster:

Members [1] {
	Member 192.168.1.101:5701 - 63b2a2ce-85f6-413f-8ce9-6058a748e4b9
}

INFO:hazelcast.client:Client started
----

If you try to connect a client without any credentials or with credentials different than the configured ones on the member side,

> you can see the connection is refused by the member. See the example terminal log for Python client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can see the connection is refused by the member.
```

[source,shell]
----
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTING
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTED
INFO:hazelcast.connection:Trying to connect to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)
INFO:hazelcast.connection:Connection(id=0, live=False, remote_address=None) closed. Reason: Failed to authenticate connection
WARNING:hazelcast.connection:Error during initial connection to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)
----

> 

Reviewer: Needs 'Next Steps'

= Authenticate Client Connections

> :description: This tutorial guides you on securing the communication between a cluster member and client using the security feature's identity configuration.

Reviewer: Describe what the tutorial is about and what the end goal is.

> {description} This way the member will accept and authorize connections from the clients which have the matching identity configurations.

Reviewer: Describe the problem statement and then explain how Hazelcast allows you to overcome it.

> We recommend you to secure your deployments; without security, unauthorized members or clients may access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> the cluster and use the cluster resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In this tutorial, you will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will complete the following steps:
```

> . Start a Hazelcast Enterprise member with security enabled and configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable and configure authentication credentials for a Hazelcast Enterprise member.
```

> . Connect a client which is configured to be authorized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure a client with the correct credentials and connect it to the member.
```

> . Try to connect another client which does not respect to the security requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Try to connect an unauthorized client to the member, and see that it is denied a connection.
```

== Before You Begin

To complete this tutorial, you need the following:

[cols="1a,1a"]
|===
|Prerequisites|Useful resources

|Trial license
|https://trialrequest.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast website]

|Docker image for the full Hazelcast distribution
|xref:get-started-enterprise.adoc[Install Hazelcast Enterprise]

|===

== Step 1. Configure the Enterprise Member

> Since the configuration for security is more detailed, you'll use a Hazelcast configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before a member can authenticate a client, the member must be configured with security enabled and some credentials to ask the client for.
```

> and pass it to the Docker command, instead of giving all the configuration options in a single Docker command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In an existing or new directory, place a `hazelcast.yaml` (or `xml`) file with the following content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an existing or new directory, create a `hazelcast.yaml` (or `xml`) file, and add the following:
```

Reviewer: The Docker `run` command mounts the `~/config` directory. Shouldn't we tell users to put their config file there? A tutorial should be opinionated to allow users to easily copy-paste and not make decisions.

[tabs]
====
YAML::
+
--

[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  cluster-name: hello-world
  license-key: <your license key> <1>
  security:

>     enabled: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    enabled: true <2>
```

    realms:

>       - name: passwordRealm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: passwordRealm <3>
```

        identity:

>           username-password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          username-password: <4>
```

            username: member1
            password: s3crEt
  member-authentication:

>     realm: passwordRealm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    realm: passwordRealm <5>
```

----

> <1> Replace the `<your license key>` placeholder with your Hazelcast Enterprise license key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

No need to repeat this information

--

XML::
+
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <cluster-name>hello-world</cluster-name>
    <license-key>your license key</license-key> <1>

>     <security enabled="true">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <security enabled="true"> <2>
```

        <realms>

>             <realm name="passwordRealm">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <realm name="passwordRealm"> <3>
```

                <identity>

>                     <username-password username="member1" password="s3crEt" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <username-password username="member1" password="s3crEt" /> <4>
```

                </identity>
            </realm>
        </realms>

>         <member-authentication realm="passwordRealm" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <member-authentication realm="passwordRealm" /> <5>
```

    </security>
</hazelcast>
----

> <1> Replace with your actual Hazelcast Enterprise license key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Put this outside the tabs to avoid duplication.

====

> With this configuration, you tell the member to accept connections only from the clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Replace the `<your license key>` placeholder with your Hazelcast Enterprise license key.

With this configuration, the member accepts connections only from clients
```

Reviewer: Could you add explanations for the extra numbered callouts I added? We need to teach users why this configuration is necessary.

> having the credentials `member1` and `s3crEt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a username of `member1` and a password of `s3crEt`.
```

== Step 2. Start the Member

Run the following command.

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run \
    --net=host \
    -e JAVA_OPTS="-Dhazelcast.config=/opt/hazelcast/config_ext/hazelcast.yaml" -v ~/config:/opt/hazelcast/config_ext hazelcast/hazelcast-enterprise:{full-version}
----

This command starts the member with the configuration provided in Step 1 above. 
Here, `~/config` is the path to the directory in which the configuration file resides.
You should replace it with the directory path you've created.

The member is up and running now:

[source,shell]
----
Members {size:1, ver:1} [
	Member [192.168.1.101]:5701 - cfc75512-a9c5-4798-bcca-450b7bf3c105 this
]
----

== Step 3. Connect a Client

> You'll now connect a client in your preferred language to the cluster, having the security credentials configured on the member side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll now use your preferred language to configure a client with the credentials to allow the member to authenticate it.
```

        this.factoryId = 1;
        this.classId = 1;
    }
    readPortable(reader) {
        this.username = reader.readString('username');
        this.endpoint = reader.readString('password');
        this.password = reader.readString('endpoint');
    }
    writePortable(writer) {
        writer.writeString('username', this.username);
        writer.writeString('password', this.password);
        writer.writeString('endpoint', this.endpoint);
    }
}
function usernamePasswordCredentialsFactory(classId) {
    if (classId === 1) {
        return new UsernamePasswordCredentials();
    }
    return null;
}
(async () => {
    try {
        const client = await Client.newHazelcastClient({
            clusterName: 'hello-world',
            serialization: {
                portableFactories: {
                    1: usernamePasswordCredentialsFactory
                }
            },
            customCredentials: new UsernamePasswordCredentials('member1', 's3crEt', '192.168.1.101:5701')
        });
        console.log(await client.getDistributedObjects());
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error occurred:', error);
    }
})();
----
. Run this script in the IDE.

====

> When looking at the client terminal, you can see that the member side has authenticated and accepted the client connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the client terminal, you should see that the member has authenticated and accepted the client connection.
```

> [source,shell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,shell, subs="attributes+"]
```

Reviewer: We shouldn't hard code versions

----

> INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTING

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient {full-version} is STARTING
```

> INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient {full-version} is STARTED
```

INFO:hazelcast.connection:Trying to connect to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)

> INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is CONNECTED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient {full-version} is CONNECTED
```

INFO:hazelcast.connection:Authenticated with server Address(host=192.168.1.9, port=5701):63b2a2ce-85f6-413f-8ce9-6058a748e4b9, server version: 5.0, local address: Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=36006)
INFO:hazelcast.cluster:

Members [1] {
	Member 192.168.1.101:5701 - 63b2a2ce-85f6-413f-8ce9-6058a748e4b9
}

INFO:hazelcast.client:Client started
----

> If you try to connect a client without any credentials or with credentials different than the configured ones on the member side,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try to connect a client without any credentials or with incorrect credentials,
```

> you can see the connection is refused by the member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the connection is refused by the member.
```

> [source,shell]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,shell, subs="attributes+"]
```

----

> INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTING

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient {full-version} is STARTING
```

> INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient 5.1 is STARTED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO:hazelcast.lifecycle:HazelcastClient {full-version} is STARTED
```

INFO:hazelcast.connection:Trying to connect to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)
INFO:hazelcast.connection:Connection(id=0, live=False, remote_address=None) closed. Reason: Failed to authenticate connection
WARNING:hazelcast.connection:Error during initial connection to Address(host=127.0.0.1, port=5701)
----

> == Step 3. Shut Down the Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 4. Shut Down the Cluster
```

Shut down the cluster you've created in this tutorial so that you can start a fresh one when you

> move to the other tutorials. To shutdown, close the terminals in which the members are running or press kbd:[Ctrl+C] in each terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
move to the other tutorials. To shut down the cluster, close the terminals in which the members are running or press kbd:[Ctrl+C] in each terminal.
```

== Next Steps

> See xref:security:overview.adoc[Securing a Cluster] if you're

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in learning more about the topics introduced in this tutorial, see xref:security:overview.adoc[] 
```

Put the information that users want to know first before telling them where to go.

> interested in learning more about the topics introduced in this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Now that you've completed this tutorial, you can continue with xref:getting-started:wan.adoc[Replicate over WAN].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To continue learning about Enterprise features, see xref:getting-started:wan.adoc[Replicate over WAN], which shows you how to replicate map entries across different clusters.
```

= Authenticate Client Connections
:description: This tutorial introduces you to member security by setting up authentication for client connections. At the end of this tutorial, you'll know how to configure member and client security settings to allow only authorized clients to connect to a cluster.

> {description} By default, members allow connections from any Hazelcast client. So, any client with access to a member can connect to the cluster and use its resources. To allow only authorized clients to connect to a member, you can configure authentication credentials on the members and clients, using the security configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{description}

By default, members allow connections from any Hazelcast client. So, any client with access to a member can connect to the cluster and use its resources. To allow only authorized clients to connect to a member, you can configure authentication credentials on the members and clients, using the security configuration.
```

. Configure a client with the correct credentials and connect it to the member.
. Try to connect an unauthorized client to the member, and see that it is denied a connection.

== Before You Begin

To complete this tutorial, you need the following:

[cols="1a,1a"]
|===
|Prerequisites|Useful resources

|Trial license
|https://trialrequest.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast website]

|Docker image for the full Hazelcast distribution
|xref:get-started-enterprise.adoc[Install Hazelcast Enterprise]

|===

== Step 1. Configure the Enterprise Member

Before a member can authenticate a client, the member must be configured with security enabled and some credentials to ask the client for.

Create a `hazelcast.yaml` (or `xml`) configuration file with the following content and place it in the `~/config` directory on your local machine.

[tabs]
====
YAML::
+
--

[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  cluster-name: hello-world
  license-key: <your license key> <1>
  security:
    enabled: true <2>
    realms:
      - name: passwordRealm <3>
        identity:
          username-password: <4>
            username: member1
            password: s3crEt

>   member-authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    member-authentication:
```

The indentation is incorrect.

>     realm: passwordRealm <5>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      realm: passwordRealm <5>
```

----
<1> Replace the `<your license key>` placeholder with your Hazelcast Enterprise license key.
<2> Set to `true` to enable security so that the clients can be authenticated by the member.
<3> Name of the security realm to be passed to the authentication configuration; it is set to `passwordRealm` in this example for convenience.
<4> Identity configuration element to set the credentials (username and password) to be used by the member for client authentication.
<5> Name of the security realm to be used by the member for client authentication.
--

XML::
+
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <cluster-name>hello-world</cluster-name>
    <license-key>your license key</license-key> <1>
    <security enabled="true"> <2>
        <realms>
            <realm name="passwordRealm"> <3>
                <identity>
                    <username-password username="member1" password="s3crEt" /> <4>
                </identity>
            </realm>
        </realms>
        <member-authentication realm="passwordRealm" /> <5>
    </security>
</hazelcast>
----

> <1> Replace the `<your license key>` placeholder with your Hazelcast Enterprise license key.

Reviewer: We can move callouts below the tabs to avoid this kind of duplication.

<2> Set to `true` to enable security so that the clients can be authenticated by the member.
<3> Name of the security realm to be passed to the authentication configuration; it is set to `passwordRealm` in this example for convenience.
<4> Identity configuration element to set the credentials (username and password) to be used by the member for client authentication.
<5> Name of the security realm to be used by the member for client authentication.
====

With this configuration, you tell the member to accept connections only from the clients
with a username of `member1` and a password of `s3crEt`.

== Step 2. Start the Member

Run the following command.

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run \

>     --net=host \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -p=5701:5701 \
```

The host network is supported only in Linux: https://docs.docker.com/network/host/

We usually just expose port 5701 in other tutorials, so I propose to do the same here instead.

    -e JAVA_OPTS="-Dhazelcast.config=/opt/hazelcast/config_ext/hazelcast.yaml" -v ~/config:/opt/hazelcast/config_ext hazelcast/hazelcast-enterprise:{full-version}
----

> This command starts the member with the configuration provided in Step 1 above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command starts the member and configures it, using your configuration file.
```

> Here, `~/config` is the path to the directory in which the configuration file resides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, `~/config` is the path to the directory in which you saved the configuration file.
```

> You should replace it with the directory path you've created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you saved the configuration file somewhere else, you should replace this path.
```

> The member is up and running now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you see the following in the terminal, the member is up and running:
```

[source,shell]
----
Members {size:1, ver:1} [

> 	Member [192.168.1.101]:5701 - cfc75512-a9c5-4798-bcca-450b7bf3c105 this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Member [172.18.0.2]:5701 - cfc75512-a9c5-4798-bcca-450b7bf3c105 this
```

Since we use `-p` the IP will be a Docker one.

]
----

== Step 3. Connect a Client

You'll now use your preferred language to configure a client with the credentials to allow the member to authenticate it.

[tabs]
====
Python::
+
--

. Create a new project in your preferred Python IDE
. Run `pip install hazelcast-python-client` in the IDE's terminal
. Create a Python file, e.g., `myPyClient.py` containing the following code.
+
[source,python]
----

> import hazelcast

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import hazelcast
import logging

logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)
```

Displays the logs.

client = hazelcast.HazelcastClient(

>     cluster_members=["192.168.1.101:5701"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cluster_members=["127.0.0.1:5701"],
```

The member is available on localhost since we used the `-p` flag.

    cluster_name="hello-world",
    creds_username="member1",
    creds_password="s3crEt"
)

client.shutdown()
----
. Run `python myPyClient.py` in the IDE.
--

Go::
+

. In a terminal, create a new directory and go into it.
. Run `go mod init <name of the directory>`.
. Run `go get github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-go-client`.
. While in this directory, create a `go` file (for example `main.go`) containing the following code.
+
[source,go]
----
package main

import (
	"context"

	"github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-go-client"
)

func main() {
	ctx := context.TODO()
	config := hazelcast.Config{}
	cc := &config.Cluster

> 	cc.Network.SetAddresses("192.168.1.101:5701")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cc.Network.SetAddresses("127.0.0.1:5701")
```

+
[source,cs]
----
var username = "member1";
var password = "s3crEt";

var options = new HazelcastOptionsBuilder();
    .With(o => {
        o.Authentication.ConfigureUsernamePasswordCredentials(username, password);
    })
    .Build();

var client = await HazelcastClientFactory.StartNewClientAsync(options);
----
. Run this class in the IDE.

C++::
+

. Install the latest https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-cpp-client/blob/v4.1.0/Reference_Manual.md#11-installing[C++ client library]
. In your preferred C++ IDE, create a new project to include a class containing the following code.
+
[source,cpp]
----
    hazelcast::client::client_config clientConfig;

    clientConfig.set_credentials(
            std::make_shared<hazelcast::client::security::username_password_credentials>("member1", "s3crEt"));

    clientConfig.set_cluster_name("hello-world");
    
    auto hz = hazelcast::new_client(std::move(clientConfig)).get();
----
. Run this class in the IDE.

Node.js::
+

. Install the Node.js client library: `npm install hazelcast-client`
. In your preferred Node.js IDE, create a new project to include the following script.
+
[source,javascript]
----

> const { Client } = require('hazelcast-client');

Reviewer: We don't need any of this class.

We can just provide the authentication config to `Client.newHazelcastClient()`:

```
    security: {
        usernamePassword: {
            username: 'member1',
            password: 's3crEt'
        }
    }
```
